---
title: Blog 8
published: true
---

Git is a great version control system that allows you to collaborate with partners on projects. I will explain a few use cases in an elementary work flow. The idea is to be able to maintain a master repository, and have numerous members contribute safely with Git version control.

# **1. Initial clone of repository master**

```
git clone <repository>
```

The above use case clones a repository into a directory locally. This is the first step when working on a new project.

# **2. Do work within your own branch**

In order to contribute to the project, work will be done in a separate branch from master, which is usually the default.

```
git checkout -b <branch-name>
```

The above use case creates a new branch within the repository, and switches to that branch.

# **3. Contribute your work to the master branch with a pull request**

```
git add .
```

The above use case updates the index using a snapshot of all the content within the current working tree. Any files you have been working on, that are not caught by your .gitignore file, will be tracked by Git.

```
git commit -m "Commit description message."
```

The above use case creates a commit of the current index and log message describing the changes.

```
git push --set-upstream origin <branch-name>
```

When executing git push, the remote repository will be updated with the contents of your local repository, on the branch you created previously.

The next step is to navigate to the branch on github.com and make a "pull request" between your newly uploaded branch and the master branch. Other members contributing to the project can examine your changes, and manually resolve conflicts, which eventually result in a merge that updates the master branch.

At this point, your local branch can be safely deleted. When starting new work with master, begin at step 2, creating a new local branch to work in.

Daniel
