---
title: Blog 3
published: true
---

I work at the City of Los Angeles in an IT Support capacity. My team and I are responbile for the supply, maintenance, and support of computer systems and users within the Los Angeles City Council.

Considering the number of users and machines within our workspace, automation is quite powerful. Today, I will write about how a few types of automation are used to simplify and streamline tasks in my day-to-day work environment.

First, I will talk about MDT. MDT stands for Microsoft Deployment Toolkit, and is a collection of tools and processes used for automating desktop deployment.

We can build the latest version or a specific version of Windows within a Virtual Machine, configure it for our environment and users, and finally capture the image in the form of a '.wim' file. This '.wim' file is a Windows Imaging Format file, and can be used to build a Windows OS installation on a new desktop.

After uploading this '.wim' file to our MDT server, which is hosted on a separate machine on our network, we can then pull down images onto new desktops. This is done by booting from the Network Interface Card on a fresh desktop, and selecting our MDT server. This will bring up all available images for deployment. You can then select the image you build within a Virtual Machine (which will be free of pre-existing drivers and computer specific configurations). This process installs the Windows OS along with all of your configurations, and takes aproximately 10 minutes depending on the size of the '.wim' and the speed of the network.

This process saves a lot of time and allows for extremely consistent desktop deployments by removing much room for user error. With cloud computing, similar deployments can be scripted and automated without the need for physical desktop imaging, further streamlining the process.

Daniel
