---
title: Blog 2-3
published: true
---

## Deploying Applications with Microsoft Deployment Toolkit

When deploying a high number of computers in a business environment, automation becomes an invaluable tool that increases accuracy and efficiency. Before, I have talked about how to create and capture a .wim file, which is a Windows image that can be deployed with Windows Deployment Services. In this blog, I will discuss how to deploy applications by preparing them with Microsoft Deployment Toolkit.

### Firefox Setup

Many developers offer alternative installation methods. For this guide, we will download the MSI version of the Firefox installer. The MSI version is basically a wrapper that covers the normal installation executable, and allows you to customize the installation process with flags and arguments.

Here are the steps to integrate Firefox with MDT so it can be deployed alongside Windows image files.

1. Create a new folder on your MDT server and name it something like 'Applications'.

2. Download the MSI version of Firefox. You can find it on the downloads page by looking for 'Advanced Install Options'.

3. Move the downloaded file into the folder you created in Step 1.

4. Within MDT, right-click on 'Applications' and select 'New Application'.

5. Navigate to the downloaded Firefox MSI and begin the integration process with MDT.

6. On the next screen, you must select 'Command-Line Installation' so you can pass flags and arguments to the installer.

7. Next, utilize the following command line to install Firefox on tagret machines unattended and without needing any user input:

```
msiexec /i "Firefox Setup File.msi" /qn
```

This allows the MSI wrapper to control the installation process, and specifically installs Firefox quietly (no window) and without needing any confirmation input.

8. Finally, after setting up Firefox within MDT, add it to one of your OS installation task sequences. Right-click the desired task sequence and modify it, and add a step within the 'Post Deployment' step to install Firefox.

### Finishing Up

Once integrating an application with MDT, it can be added to any task sequence in a few steps, and then deployed across hundreds of machines. This is a powerful, robust, and modular system that eases setting up computers in a consistent way.

Daniel