---
title: Blog 2-5
published: true
---

## Setup Pi Hole on Raspberry Pi

Pi Hole defends your entire network from incoming ads. By replacing the DNS server your router uses and denying any ads from coming into your network, you can protect each device on your network without needing to fiddle with ad blocks across different platforms.

## Step 1: Raspberry Pi Hardware and Software

You will need a Raspberry Pi with an SD card and ethernet cable. It should be plugged in and placed in a safe and secure location, as it will be running the service perpetually.

You must write an Operating System to the SD card before you can connect and configure the device. Diet Pi is a lightweight server Operating System for the Raspberry Pi, and it's what i'm using for this project.

Once you select an OS, write it to the SD card and load it into the Pi.

## Step 2: Configuration

Find the IP address associated with the Raspberry Pi on your network. For me it ended up being 192.168.1.44.

Once you connect to the Pi with the default credentials, change the default password immediately!

Utilize the IP address and connect to the Pi and configure a static IP. This is required for our DNS ad blocking.

Use the following commands to install Pi Hole:

```
wget -0 basic-install.sh https://install.pi-hole.net
sudo bash basic-install.sh
```

Then, choose a network interface and DNS upstream provider. Make sure to enable the Web Admin Interface, and note the temporary password provided.

Next, connect to the Admin Web Page and execute the following command:

```
sudo pihole -a -p
```

Finally, configure your router to use the Pi Hole IP address as its preferred DNS server. This establishes the Pi Hole as the DNS server and will not serve any content from ad requests!

Daniel