---
title: Blog 2-2
published: true
---

## Power with Powershell pt. 2

As the last Powershell blog described, Powershell is a powerful tool to use when configuring a large number of machines in the same way. I wrote a number of utilitiy scripts to configure any number of machines using Powershell. Although the implementation varies from computer to computer based on the requirements, I will outline some of the major functions you can use to configure a computer.

Here, we can set the computer name, workgroup, and timezone.

```
$NewName = "DOVES-XX"
Rename-Computer -NewName $NewName

Add-Computer -WorkGroupName "DOVES-NETWORK"

Set-TimeZone -Name "Pacific Standard Time"
```

Another configuration we can make automatically is regarding the firewall. If your computers are behind a larger network firewall, you may want to configure your machines to have their Windows firewall set off for public and private networks.

```
Set-NetFirewallProfile -Profile Domain,Public,Private -Enabled False
```

Environment variables can be set up through Powershell, saving vital steps when setting up many machines. If your machines or the software they use rely on a specific version of software, you can configure that from the beginning.

```
[Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("JAVA_HOME", "C:\Program Files (x86)\Java\jre1.5.0_11", "Machine")
[Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("CLASSPATH", "%JAVA_HOME%\lib", "Machine")
``` 

You can also configure the network further, assigning a specific DNS.

```
Set-DnsClientServerAddress -InterfaceAlias Ethernet -ServerAddresses ("8.8.8.8","8.8.4.4")
```

Powershell scripts like these can be executed on a Windows machine, and saves a lot of time when configuring many computers at once. If you find yourself doing a task multiple times, chances are it can be automated.

Daniel